Japanese crosswords
A Japanese crossword - is a puzzle, which has a picture encoded in numbers. The aim of the puzzle is to restore this picture in full.

Japanese crosswords can be of two types - black and white and colour. In black and white crosswords the picture contains only two 
colours - black (we paint using this colour) and white (background colour). In colour crosswords the picture is reproduced by several 
colours against white background.


A field of a Japanese crossword is lined both horizontally and vertically with lines of different thickness. The thickest lines separate 
the central part (field of the picture) from numbers. With the help of thinner lines the field is divided into groups of 5 squares 
(both horizontally and vertically) - it is made only for convenience (it is more convenient to count width/height of the groups of 
squares. The picture itself in a Japanese crossword is formed by painting separate squares (central part) using necessary colour. 
While an unpainted square is supposed to be white.

Numbers, shown on the left and above the crossword - describe the groups of painted squares (which go in sequence, no blanks) 
horizontally and vertically accordingly. The order of these numbers describes the order of location of these groups, but it is 
unknown where each group starts and finishes (in fact it is the task of the puzzle to define their location). Each separate 
number means a separate group of the given size (i.e. number 5 - means a group of five painted squares in sequence, 1 - a 
group of only one painted square). In black and white crosswords we always paint the square black, in colour ones - we 
paint the square using the colour by which the number is marked. Between the groups of one colour there should be at least 
one unpainted square (otherwise they would make one group). Between groups of different colour there can be no empty squares.


The main requirement to Japanese crosswords is that the crossword should have only one logical solution, achieved without 
any "guessing" (method of trial and error). But unfortunately it is quite often possible to find crosswords with several variants 
of solution, or crosswords which can't be solved by purely analytical methods. Sometimes there are even crosswords with mistakes 
(or more exactly misprints) which make the crossword unsolvable at all. By thi reason we recommend beginners not to pay attention 
to cheap newspapers/magazines with Japanese crosswords and to treat Japanese crosswords in newspapers not specializing 
on this very kind of crosswords cautiously, as you may often find mistakes in such issues. Also we would like to note that 
we guarantee our crosswords, that all of them have no mistakes and have only one solution achieved without any "guessing".


To solve a Japanese crossword a person should look at each line/column separately, always moving to the next column and lines.
 In so doing the process of solving in each line/column comes to the following:

To define the squares which are sure to be painted (with any possible location of the groups) - so we paint them To define
 the squares in which it is impossible to have painted squares - such squares are marked with a cross 
(sometimes a bullet point is used instead of a cross) To define the numbers, which location is already 
identified - usually these numbers are crossed out.

Thus, gradually there are marks in the field which help to identify new marks step by step, then 
more and more marks until finally the crossword is completely solved (it should be noted that if even only one mark is 
put incorrectly - it may lead to a deadlock solution).